A case to this lecture we're going to be looking at adding WHERE clauses to select statements so you
can see I have selected staw from my products table with in my coffee store database and it's returned
all seven rows within my products table.
But what if I want to select certain certain rows from this table let's say I wanted to only select
products where the coffee region was equal to Columbia.
Well to do this we're going to have to add a WHERE clause to our select statement.
So here I've selected stuff from products and I'm going to add a WHERE clause which will mean that it's
only going to return rows where coffee origin is equal to Columbia.
So to other close we need to type select style from products and then on the next line we need to type
where a column is called to a certain value.
So you put where.
Followed by the column name.
So in this case is coffee origin
is called to a some value.
So in this case I want to be to be equal to Columbia so for all cha cha data types.
I need to use single quotes and then within those single quotes I need to type the value.
So in this case it's Columbia
and then I can run that.
So we've got select stuff from products where coffee origin column is equal to Columbia and you can
see that just returned the first two rows where coffee origin was equal to Columbia.
Now we can also do it with integers or numbers.
So let's try the price column now.
So let's type where price is equal to three daughters or 3.00.
Now because it's a number we don't have to use single quotes.
We can just type 3.00
and we see we have our two products where the price is equal to 3.00.
So we use where clauses and select statements and we can also have more than one where clause in a single
select statement.
So here I've just got one where clause of code where price is equal to 3.00.
I can also add a second one by going to the next line and typing and then putting my next where clause.
So I type and column name equal to a certain value.
So let's type where price is equal to 3.00 and coffee or region is equal to Colombia.
And because it's a string of single quotes unless run that and see what we got and you can see it turns
one right which meets both where clauses.
So we have a price that sequence 3.00.
And we also have an origin that's equal to Colombia and we can keep going adding more and more clauses
as many as we want.
We just have to keep typing and column name equal to certain value and column name who to send a value
for as long as you want for as many whacko's as you want as well as using the and stateman.
We can also use or so we can say select from X where price is equal to frequent 0 0 or coffee origin
is equal to Columbia.
And if we run now let's see what we got.
So you can see here it's returned all the rows which meet either one or both of the criteria is.
So here we've got Bouffard coffee origins which are required to Colombia but you can see it's also included
the espresso which has a price of 2.5.
So that didn't meet the price secret of 3.0.
But it did meet the coffee origins to Columbia and then similarly here we have to filter coffee which
does have a price of 3.00 but it doesn't have a coffee origin of Sri Lanka.
So that all means it has to me one of the where clause is but the and it has the meat both of the where
clause is so that's it for adding a simple where clause to a select statement.
We just have to type where a column name is equal to a certain value.
And we can add as many wack clauses as we want using the.
And all the or statement.
So let's move on to the next video.